---
title: Summer Just Got Cooler
author: Anagha Dudihalli
---

**FSMK Camp ‘16.** Was waiting for this since the time I heard about FSMK camps for the first time! Finally got the opportunity and wouldn’t have traded it with anything else this summer!

Free Software Movement Karnataka is a Non-Profit Organisation, a part of Free Software Movement India which supports the ideology of Free and Open Source Software(FOSS) and spreads across people. It conducts these camps annually to introduce and motivate people to use FOSS and building technologies using FOSS. The best part about this camp is that it’s volunteer driven who almost all are students who were participants in the previous camps and spread the knowledge with others free of cost! The sponsers of this camp were Software Freedom Law Center, India (SFLC) which provides various law related services to protect and promote FOSS.

It was a seven day long camp held at Siddaganga Institute of Technology, Tumkur. Unlike the previous camps this time it was held in a different city which on itself raised our excitement bar to its maximum. The campus was lush green, beautiful and totally serene . Who wouldn’t like to spend their four years there? There were few participants who had already arrived when we reached. Interacting with them got us to know that there were participants from all the parts of Karnataka! Bangalore,Hassan,Mangalore, Chikamagalur just to name few.

There were three different tracks. Freedom Hardware, Design & Animation and Web which again had two sub tracks – Front-End Web and Back-End Web. I decided to go with Design and Animation since this is a field I have never got my hands dirty with.

The first day kicked in with an opening ceremony in which the importance of FOSS was explained and why it’s important that we use them. Followed by installation of the latest version of Fedora and Ubuntu in few systems. The participants then followed their tracks where again an introduction was given as to how FOSS can be implemented in the respective track they had chosen. In my case it was Design & Animation so they spoke about FOSS like Inkscape, Blender and Gimp which can be used to create design and animation and even how a whole animated movie can be created using Blender!

From the second day onwards every morning we had a session by SFLC where they introduced us to various software law related things like Copyright, Creative Commons, Patents and Privacy Policy. It was then followed by our technical sessions of our respective tracks.

All the speakers and volunteers were extremely friendly and helpful. They were like our friends in the whole camp journey. In between all the technical sessions we even had many fun activities like Dumb Charades, Draw the Tail game and more. There was a cultural/talent show held too where all the participants and volunteers got to showcase their talent. We danced, sang, laughed and had a gala time. At the end of the camp it was almost unbelievable that most of us were strangers on the day 1!

The camp concluded with discussions on how we can successfully create GNU/Linux Users Group(GLUG) in our colleges so that we spread the FOSS knowledge learnt here and otherwise to other students in our colleges and keep it going.

Overall it was an amazing experience. Never thought learning could be this much fun. I would want to experience this all over again, hopefully in the next year as a volunteer!
